Compilation
As this is a maven project, it is just essential to execute the following command: "mvn clean install" at the command line or via any software development toolkit in order to compile the code.
 
Execution
The code can be executed by typing "mvn exec:java -Deu.paasage.configdir=<path>" where <path> denotes the path to the directory in which two configuration files are situated: (a) the properties files required by the encompassing CDOClient (of some components) in order to be able to correctly establish sessions and communicate with the CDOServer which is named as "eu.paasage.mddb.cdo.client.properties" and (b) the properties file required for the proper configuration of the MetricCollector named as "eu.paasage.executionware.metric-collector.properties", including information about which TSDB is used at which port, what is the mode of aggregation, whether a publication server and a subscription client (for starting metric collections) must be run in case of a global MetricCollector and how to interact with the MetricCollector (see next sub-section).

Pre-Requisites
The MetricCollector exploits a particular TSDB in order to store and aggregate over measurements. Thus, this TSDB should be already running and the MetricCollector should be configured to properly connect to it. Two TSDB implementations are currently supported, InfluxDB and KairosDB. The version of InfluxDB supported is 0.8.8. For KairosDB, the latest version is supported 0.9.4.
As surely for a global MetricCollector but in most of the cases for a local MetricCollector, a CDOServer should also exist and be running as the measurements of top-level metrics or metrics needed for computing global metrics have to be stored also in it.   

Configuration
The main configuration file of a Metric Collector, named as "eu.paasage.executionware.metric-collector.properties", contains the following properties that can be configured:
- db: it can take the values of influx or kairos mapping to the two TSDBs that are currently supported, i.e., InfluxDB and KairosDB, respectively. 
- host: the name of the host where the TSDB resides
- port: the port number on which the TSDB listens
- mode: the operation mode of the MetricCollector which can take the values of either local or global
- runServer: a boolean value is expected here to denote whether a publication server should also be executed in order to publish measurements for (top-level) metrics. By default the value is false. This parameter should only be set on in the case of a global MetricCollector.
- runClient: a boolean value is expected here to denote whether a subscription client should also be executed in order to receive requests for measuring collections of metrics on behalf of a certain application instance. By default the value is false. This parameter should only be set on in the case of a global MetricCollector.
- directCall: a boolean value is expected to denote whether the public methods of the MetricCollector are to be called in a direct or indirect manner (e.g., via command file). By default this property takes the value of false. 
- dynamic: a boolean value is expected to denote whether the public methods are dynamically called by changing the content of the command file. Obviously, this property should only be set on if the value of the directCall configuration property is false. By default, this property takes the value of false.
  
Interaction ways
The MetricCollector can be executed either directly or indirectly. The direct execution is the obvious case where a specific instance of the MetricCollector class is generated in a specific encompassing code and the respective methods of this instance are directly executed by this code. There are two ways you can indirectly execute a MetricCollector:
(a) via the command file which is named as " eu.paasage.executionware.metric-collector.command". This file is situated in the same directory as the one used to store the two required properties file for the configuration of the MetricCollector;
(b) by issuing/publishing startCollection messages which include the CDOID of the respective execution context at the 5550 local port - the MetricCollector should have the runClient configuration property set on in order to run its subscription client and listen to these messages. The indirect interaction in this way is limited to only the starting of a metric collection measurement for the moment.

To indicate one of the two main interaction ways (direct/indirect) to select, there are two properties in the "eu.paasage.executionware.metric-collector.properties" that can be set: (a) directCall which indicates whether the MetricCollector can be directly called or not and (b) in case of indirect interaction, the dynamic property used to indicate whether the interaction is dynamic or not (first indirect way) or the runClient configuration property (as indicated above - second indirect way). Dynamic means that the command file will be modified during the execution of the MetricCollector to indicate the different calls that have to be made while non-dynamic means that the command file is read just once in the beginning. It is obvious that the non-dynamic indirect interaction requires stopping the MetricCollector in the hard way as also embeds the dynamic configuration of the measurement system, so it is not quite preferable. The second indirect way is obviously dynamic in nature.

Testing
In order to test the MetricCollector, a specific test case has been developed. This test case involves the generation of a CAMEL model which includes all the elements that are needed in order to start a measurement on behalf of a certain application instance, including concrete deployment models, metric models and execution models. The test code executes two MetricCollectors, one local and one global. The local MetricCollector is indirectly executed via the command file. The execution of the global MetricCollector can be performed in two ways depending on a boolean input parameter that should be set and given when calling the main method. This parameter indicates whether the global MetricCollector will be informed about the particular actions to perform via the MeasurementInitiationSubscriptionClient or immediately after it is instantiated via directly calling the respective method. In order not to interfere in the execution of the two types of MetricCollectors, their configuration files are put in separate directories. The directory of the local MetricCollector is the root directory of the code while the directory of the global MetricCollector is the input sub-directory of this root directory. The test case involves measuring resource and aggregate metrics. The scheduling of these metrics is different and so is the responsibility to measure them. Particular files are created inside the root directory code when executing this test, each one mapping to a different metric. These are developed in order to indicate the measurements that are produced for each metric. The log file is another source of checking as there you can examine that not only the measurements are produced but also those of the top-level aggregate metrics are published to be received by potential subscribers. A specific SubscriptionClient runs in the background which listens to the measurement events and reports them in the log file. 
To run this test case, you just have to execute as already indicated above the following command: 'mvn exec:java -Deu.paasage.configdir=<path> -Dexec.args="<true/false>"' where you can see that we have included in the end the input parameter to the main method.
A pre-requisite for properly running this test case is that a TSDB should be already running. By default, we assume that an InfluxDB is used to realise the functionality of the TSDB but the user can of course modify this in the configuration files of both the local and global MetricCollector. A CDOServer should be also running and the respective connection information should have been set at the "eu.paasage.mddb.cdo.client.properties" file.   